Transcriber: Sarah Braun
Reviewer: Denise RQ
Wow, it's truly an honor
to be here with all of you.
Today I want to share with you
why I believe
that most entrepreneurs
are slowly killing themselves.
If you're an entrepreneur,
my intention is to help you achieve
greater results in your business
by consistently performing
at a higher level,
by being a lot less stressed out,
and by having more fun
on your entrepreneurial journey.
If you're not an entrepreneur,
but you consider yourself
to be a hard worker in your job,
I still think a lot of these principles
will apply to you.
Entrepreneurs are a fascinating
breed of people.
They're some of the most passionate
and driven people in the world.
Oftentimes, they're also
some of the most obsessive
and out of balance individuals
you'll ever meet.
This combination can lead
to world changing innovation
and incredible beauty.
Unfortunately, it can also lead
to a lot of suffering
and self destruction.
Here's where this gets interesting.
This personality issue that most
entrepreneurs have to deal with
is strongly compounded
by a very dangerous social issue.
In North America today,
the social narrative entrepreneurship
tells us that, to be successful,
we have to be willing
to sacrifice our health, our relationships
and even our emotional well-being.
Simply put, we got to pay the price
if we want to be successful.
When we look at some
of the most successful
and most influential role models
of entrepreneurship today,
it's pretty interesting what we see.
Let's look at Elon Musk, for example.
Elon Musk is the poster boy
for world changing entrepreneurship.
Over the last year, he's co-founded
some of the most extraordinary companies
like PayPal, SpaceX and Tesla.
He's done so by per proudly working
a 100 hours per week.
In a recent interview, when asked
what advice he would give
to aspiring entrepreneurs,
Elon said, "Just work like hell.
You just gotta put in 80 to 100 hours
per week, week after week."
Now, to put this in perspective,
to work 80 a week,
you have to work from 8am till 9pm
nonstop for six days a week.
If you're really courageous
and you want to work 100 hours a week,
you're looking at six days a week
doing 8am to 12.30am.
That's past midnight.
That certainly doesn't leave a lot of time
for things like sleep and exercise
and spending time with loved ones,
which ironically enough are all activities
that have been shown scientifically
to increase our happiness
and our work performance.
Working this much can lead
to a whole slew of problems.
In the case of Elon,
there's a darker side to the story
that not a lot of people know about.
He's only 42, and he's already
divorced twice.
He admits that he spends
very little time with his five children.
When he's with them,
he's often responding to e-mail.
Now, I'm not here to judge
Elon's lifestyle or decisions.
But I do believe that before
we start to glorify or emulate someone,
we should look at the whole picture.
Not just our highlight real.
I know this from experience:
The extreme pursuit
of my entrepreneur dreams
almost destroyed me - twice.
Over the last twelve months,
I figured out a way to have
greater results in my business,
not by pushing harder and working more,
but by actually working less,
by having more fun
and enjoying my life a lot more.
I realised that the dichotomy
between achieving my greatest dreams
and enjoying my life in this moment,
was actually a false one.
For people like me
and many other entrepreneurs
who have an overachieving personality,
taking more time to relax
and appreciating life more
can be the biggest catalyst
to bigger results.
For some of you, this might sound crazy
and too good to be true.
So let me tell you
how I came to this realization.
Three years ago,
I launched my first business.
My intention was to help people
build better habits,
improve their mindset and do more
extraordinary things with their life.
At first I was super enthusiastic.
I was having the time of my life
and this was really fun.
But as I became more successful
and as the business grew,
my workload increased
and so did the complexity of my life.
Not knowing what to do,
I decided to see what other
successful entrepreneurs were doing.
To see if I could learn from them.
When I found out that Mark Zuckerberg
spends routinely 16 hours a day
at the Facebook office,
I figured he was probably
a good example to follow.
I mean, things have worked out
pretty well for him in the last few years.
From that point on,
whenever I ran into a problem,
I would just unleash my inner Zuckerberg
and throw more hard work at the problem.
If figured if I could just
work a little bit harder,
be a little more productive,
then all my problems would go away,
my business would thrive
and then I would be happy.
Well, let me tell you:
That approach did not work at all.
Within a few months,
I'd run myself into the ground,
I was stressed out of my mind
and I felt like there must be
something wrong with me
because I just wasn't able
to work as much as Mark Zuckerberg.
To make things worse,
here I was running a business
called "The Feel Good Lifestyle",
while feeling stressed out and exhausted.
As you can imagine,
I was a little bit out of integrity,
and I hated that.
So I decided to do things differently.
I decided to do a little experiment.
I gave myself a 30 day
work less challenge.
For 30 days, I intentionally
spend less time working
and I reallocated the extra time
through doing things like
spending time with my friends,
going in nature
and going on more dates
with amazing women.
Now, as you can imagine,
it was a very enjoyable month.
(Laughter)
Lo and behold something
unexpected happened;
my business had its most profitable
month ever by more than 45%.
How?
For one, because I wasn't
working all the time,
I had a lot more mental clarity.
I was able to see opportunities clearly
and act on them decisively.
My creativity was on a whole new level,
I had some of my best ideas ever
and my team and I were able
to execute on them a lot faster.
I learned to build systems,
I learned to delegate more
and I learned to focus on a few things
that actually mattered.
Over the next few months,
I was on this amazing trajectory
and things were going really well.
And then, something interesting happened.
Because things were going so well,
more opportunities came my way,
I said yes to more things and before long
I was falling back into my old patterns.
We're working on all these
exciting opportunities,
we're making such rapid progress,
all I wanted to do was work more.
I was addicted to the dopamine rush
I got from crossing things
off my to do list.
I was totally high off of the idea
that I was achieving my biggest goals.
But before long, the high began to fade.
I started to feel like all I was doing
was run around all day,
trying to keep 300 balls in the air.
Deep down, I knew I wanted
to take a break, but I was terrified
that if I did, the whole thing
would fall apart
and my business would crumble.
Here I was, the successful
young entrepreneur,
suffocating under the weight
of my own ambitions.
I didn't know what to do so I just
reverted back to my old humor
I threw more hard work at the problem,
hoping it would solve everything.
Well, it didn't.
One day in the midst of all this chaos,
I decided to go to a
sensory deprivation tank.
For those of you who don't know,
a sensory deprivation tank
is a tank that's half full with water,
with a lot of salt,
where you can actually float
on top of the water,
in total darkness, in total quietude.
It's a great place to relax and to do
some deep reflection.
That day, when I lay down to float,
I immediately felt this immense wave
of fatigue surge through my body.
I felt it all.
All the stress, all the pressure,
all the discipline I'd imposed upon myself
in my quest to build a next great company.
I felt it.
In that moment, the dam just broke.
I started crying uncontrollably.
For the next 30 minutes,
I just laid there,
butt-naked in the dark,
crying my heart out.
With no idea what the hell
was happening to me.
(Laughter)
I wasn't even sad, I was just completely
exhausted, emotionally drained.
For the last three years
I'd pushed myself so hard,
I'd take on so many challenges
and I'd overcome so many of my fears
and insecurities along the way,
but I'd never given myself the time
or the permission to actually recover
from all this madness.
It's funny looking back,
this whole time I thought I was doing
such a great job, when in reality,
what I was actually doing
was slowly killing myself.
And I know I'm not the only one.
I was like the athlete who is so motivated
and training so hard for the Olympics,
that he ends up overtraining
and injuring himself.
Sometimes we can have
the best intentions in the world,
but the extreme pursuit of our dreams
ends up destroying us.
Physically, mentally and emotionally.
So in that moment, I knew
I needed to radically alter
my approach to entrepreneurship.
So I slowed down.
I temporarily skilled down
parts of the business
and I started asking myself
the big questions like,
"Who am I? Why am I doing all this?
What do I really want?"
I scrapped the whole masterplan
and I decided to give myself time
to realign with my purpose
and with my soul's desires.
I decided to stop treating myself
like a machine and accept the fact
that I'm just human.
And sometimes, I just need to chill out,
just like everybody else.
I decided to stop obsessing
about the future
and about these big goals I had in mind
and to start appreciating all the beauty
that's in my life right now.
I made a very critical change
to my mindset.
I let go of the idea
that the amount of success I get
is directly correlated
to the numbers of hours I worked.
I just let that go.
And then, magic started to happen.
If we zoom out of entrepreneurship
for just a second
and we look at different fields,
we can get a very different perspective
on what it takes to achieve sustainable,
extraordinary performances over time.
Let's look at elite athletes for example.
In a twelve-month year, elite athletes
go through four seasons;
they have the pre-season/training camp,
they have the regular season,
they have the play-offs,
and then, they have the off-season.
We never question the fact
that the best athletes in the world
take four months off a year to recover
and build themselves
back up for the next year.
But if an entrepreneur was to do that,
we would think they're crazy.
Let's look at rock stars.
They operate in a very different way.
They're not concerned about
working slow and steady long hours,
the way they structure their lives
is that they prepare
for their performance,
they perform, and then they recover.
What would happen if as entrepreneurs,
instead of working all these long hours,
we looked at our life in terms
of preparing for a performance,
performing brilliantly
for just a few hours,
and then recovering
until our next performance.
What would that do for a business?
And finally, if we look at artists,
like painters,
they're not obsessed
about their productivity
and how many hours they work,
what they focus on
is getting in a state
of alignment and flow
so that their greatest work can emerge.
What would happen if as entrepreneurs,
we weren't so obsessed
with the volume of our output
and the number of hours
we put in the office, and instead,
we focused on creating
the most amazing, beautiful work.
What would that do?
To give you an example
of these principles in action,
this month my business is well on its way
to having another record month in profit.
But we didn't do it by hustling harder
and pushing more.
I actually spend
the first week of the month
on a sailing trip of the coast
of California with my friends,
totally disconnected from work.
Actually, the only productive thing I did
was write this talk.
The second week of the month
I worked about 30 hours.
And yet, we're achieving
greater results than ever.
It's a lot easier.
And that feels really good,
especially after all the hard work.
Now, I don't have all the answers
and this is a highly personal topic,
it's different for me, and you,
and everybody else.
Maybe for Elon Musk, working
a hundred hours a week really is optimal.
Or maybe, he's not succeeding
because of his crazy work schedule.
Or rather, in spite of it.
Maybe Elon could be doing even better.
I don't know.
But what I do know is that one
of the most important traits
of successful entrepreneurs
is that we constantly
test our assumptions.
So let me ask you this:
What is your current assumption
about the correlation between
the number of hours you work
and the amount of success you'll have?
Do you believe that you have to
push yourself to the limit each week
in order to reach your goals?
Or is it possible that maybe,
if you slow down a little bit,
if you give yourself time to rest,
to reflect and to recover,
not only you'd be happier and healthier,
but your business would be better as well?
If you think that there's
even a remote chance
that that might be the case,
I think we should test it.
So here's my invitation to you:
For the next 30 days,
starting on Monday morning,
give yourself a 30 day
work less challenge.
Whatever amount of work
you're currently doing,
skill it down by 25%.
So if you're currently working 80 hours,
skill it down to 60.
If you're working 60 hours,
take it down to 45.
And then, start to track the results.
Look at the qualitative metrics
like how you feel, how creative
and productive you're being,
and look at the hard data,
the quantitative metrics
like your profit and your revenue.
See what happens.
Worst case scenario:
You'll have a really fun month,
you'll get to experience life
in a whole different way,
and you'll be a lot more rested
by the time you get back
to the regular schedule next month.
But best case scenario:
You realised that this whole time
you've been the victim
of a broken social narrative.
And that you could actually
be more successful by working less.
How cool would that be?
A lot of successful entrepreneurs
are starting to make that shift,
from Yvon Chouinard from Patagonia
to Tim Ferris and even Arianna Huffington.
Maybe it's time for you
to make that shift as well.
Whatever you decide to do,
here's the bottom line:
Entrepreneurship does take
a lot of hard work.
There's always going to be phases
where we need to sprint
and put in longer hours.
But trying to stay
in 'biz' mode all the time
is one of the most
destructive things we can do.
For our health, for our relationships,
and for our business.
I sincerely believe that now,
more than ever,
the world needs
its entrepreneurs to shine,
if together, we're going to overcome
some of the world's biggest problems.
But this isn't going to happen
when entrepreneurs are
constantly exhausted
and just running on fumes all the time.
It's going to happen when entrepreneurs
are inspired and energized,
because they're aligned
with the natural rhythm of their body.
Here's the good news:
From what I've learned, you don't need
to work yourself to death to succeed.
But what you do need to do
is find the optimal rest for you.
So that every day, you can bring
your greatest work to life.
So that you can feel
totally and fully alive
on the path to achieving your greatest
entrepreneurial dreams.
Thank you.
(Applause)